A kaleidoscope of traditions, culture and vibrant geographies, India speaks for itself as a soul-stirring journey. From its dusty snow trenches, frolic coasts, gripping natural greens to the mystic ravines of spirituality and clusters of cultural shades, India captures the heart of every tourist. Bounded by the Himalayan ranges in the north and surrounded on three sides by water (Arabian sea, Bay of Bengal and Indian Ocean), India offers a wide array of places to see and things to do. The enchanting backwaters, hill stations and landscapes make India a beautiful country. Historical monuments, forts etc. add to the grandeur of the country. A country where at places temperature can reach as high as +50 degree celsius and at other places dip as low as -48 degree celsius, where you can find yourself in dense green forests or choose to be in a barren desert, go for a leisurely stroll in friendly neighborhood or indulge in adventure sports, whether you like the luxurious living of 5 star hotels or the pocket friendly budget accommodation – no matter what you like and looking for, India has it all.
The Indian tourist destinations have been broadly divided in 5 regions, North, East, West, South and North-East:
NORTH: Covers Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh. It is here that both the hottest (in Rajasthan) and the coldest (in Jammu & Kashmir) places of India are located. The mesmerizing Taj Mahal and heritage hotels in Rajasthan’s palaces are located in this region. The magnificent Himalayas, the highest mountains in the world, are a treasure trove of mystery and spiritual knowledge, which they openly share with seekers willing to embrace them. The mountains in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh offer challenging trekking, para-gliding, river rafting and many other adventure sports. The cultural epicentre of ancient India, Varanasi – also known as the City of Moksha – lies in the this region.
EAST: Covers Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Bihar is known as ancient India’s centre of power, learning and culture, and is birthplace of Buddhism. Jharkhand is known for abundant forests, hills, wildlife, Paitkar Paintings, handicrafts and wood carvings. In Odisha you will come across its serpentine rivers, virgin beaches, mighty waterfalls and blue hills. The famous Konark Sun Temple and Jagannauth Yatra are major attractions. West Bengal is the State of Rabindranath Tagore. The capital city Kolkata is synonymous with mouth-watering street food. The fragrant mangrove forests of Sundarbans are the habitat of the famous Royal Bengal Tiger. The Andaman and Nicobar is an archipelago of more than 572 islands that offer peace, nature and beauty at its very best.
NORTH EAST: This region encompasses mountainous states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim. The region is replete with picturesque peaks and scenic rivers, beautiful Buddhist monasteries and almost impenetrable forests. Assam is a hot-spot for wild life tourism with over 25 national parks and sanctuaries. Manipur’s rich culture excels in martial arts, dance and theatre. Meghalaya which means Abode of the Clouds, is a once-in-a-lifetime experience. Mawsynram in Meghalaya receives the highest rainfall in the world. The poetic juxtaposition of mountains, valleys, rivers and lakes seems to be the cue for Mizoram’s beautiful music and dance. Nagaland lies nestled amongst the three mountain ranges of Naga, Patkai and Barail. Unique crafts like colourful woven shawls, mats, bamboo works, decorative spears and tribal song and dance distinguish various tribes. Sikkim’s mountains are a paradise for trekkers and adventurers. Trekking trails lead to hidden lakes and ancient monasteries.
